feat: add language base layer guide (#1941)
shopware/docs: concepts/translations/base-language-selection.md

> # Defining Base Languages in Shopware’s Region-Independent Snippet Layer

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Defining Fallback Languages in Shopware’s Region-Independent Snippet Layer
```

I guess renaming the file will be correct as well

> With Shopware 6.7 a **region-independent snippet layer** was introduced to reduce duplicate translations.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With Shopware 6.7 a **country-agnostic snippet layer** was introduced to reduce duplicate translations.  
```

In technical terms, we're always using "country-agnostic", so I'd prefer to do this everywhere

> In this model the snippet loader first attempts to load a region-specific variant (e.g. `de-DE`), then falls back to a **base language** (e.g. `de`), and finally falls back to `en` as a universal default.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this model the snippet loader first attempts to load a country-specific variant (e.g. `de-DE`), then falls back to an agnostic **base language** (e.g. `de`), and as a last resort falls back to `en` as a universal default.  
```

> The base layer concept and fallback order are explained in detail in the [Built-in Translation Handling](built-in-translation-system.html) page, which you should read alongside this guide.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The fallback layer concept and fallback order are explained in detail in the [Built-in Translation Handling](built-in-translation-system.html) page, which you should read alongside this guide.
```

> The base layer concept and fallback order are explained in detail in the [Built-in Translation Handling](built-in-translation-system.html) page, which you should read alongside this guide.

Author: ahh.. yes.

> ## Why a base layer?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Why an extra fallback layer?
```

Reviewer: Btw, didn't we write all headline ins Capital Case?

> Before v6.7, Shopware shipped only region-specific snippet files. Developers often duplicated an existing file (for example `en-GB`) and changed a handful of keys for another locale.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before v6.7, Shopware shipped only country-specific snippet files. Developers often duplicated existing files (for example `en-GB` to `en-US`) and changed a handful of keys for another locale.  
```

> This practice led to bloated repositories and inconsistent fallbacks. The **region-independent layer** centralizes common translations into a neutral base file (`en`, `de`, `pt`, etc.) and isolates regional differences in small patch files.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This practice led to bloated repositories and inconsistent fallbacks. The **country-agnostic layer** centralizes common translations into a neutral fallback file (`en`, `de`, `pt`, etc.) and isolates regional differences in small patch files.  
```

> Detailed examples of how Shopware resolves translations are available in the [Built-in Translation Handling](built-in-translation-system.html) guide.

Author: I guess its okay to continue with the general page.

> ## Criteria for selecting a base language

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Criteria for selecting a fallback language
```

> A base language is a **language code without a regional sub-tag** (for example `en`, `de` or `pt`).  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A fallback language is a **locale without the region part** (for example `en` instead of `en-US` or `en-GB`).  
```
Additionally

Shopware’s core repository defines which languages have a base file; if your language appears only as a single locale (such as `sv-SE`), that file serves as both the base and regional variant.  
To decide whether your language needs a base file and which variant defines it, follow these principles:

* **Use the standard variant** – The base file should reflect the official standard form of a language. Shopware uses British English (en-GB) as the basis for `en` and European Portuguese (pt-PT) for `pt`.
* **Create a base only when multiple regional variants exist** – If there is only one supported locale (for example Czech), you don’t need a separate `cs` file.

> * **Aim for neutrality** – Avoid region-specific terminology in the base file. For Spanish, a neutral Castilian register is recommended to maximize comprehension.

Reviewer: What do you wanna say with this?
Our core uses agnostic files (We should not use "base" files, since messages.<locale>.base is something different) as a best practice. This sounds like it's best practice for swedish which isn't true. Of course, for languages only spoken at one place, it doesn't make a difference, but still the agnostic one should be the best practice.

I guess these lines only confuse people and can safely be removed. ("Aim for dialect neutrality if possible" can stay in some regards I guess)

> ## Base languages

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Fallback languages
```

> The **base code** is the plain language code (e.g. `en` or `de`), and the **defining dialect** is the standard locale from which the base translations derive.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **fallback code** is the plain language code (e.g. `en` or `de`), and the **defining dialect** is the standard locale from which the base translations derive.  
```

The table shows some examples of common cases:

| Base code | Standard variant (defining dialect) | Example dialects |
|-----------|-------------------------------------|------------------|
| **en**    | en-GB (British English)             | en-US, en-CA, en-IN |
| **de**    | de-DE (German in Germany)           | de-AT, de-CH |
| **es**    | es-ES (Castilian Spanish)           | es-AR, es-MX |
| **pt**    | pt-PT (European Portuguese)         | pt-BR |
| **fr**    | fr-FR (French in France)            | fr-CA, fr-CH |

> | **nl**    | nl-NL (Dutch in the Netherlands)    | nl-BE |

Reviewer: I know, not required, but you formated the first 2 columns properly and the rest not. Alt+Enter in PHPStorm can auto-format this to make it more beautiful 😄

## Implementation guidelines for extension developers

For detailed instructions, see the [Extension Translation Migration](/resources/references/upgrades/core/translation/extension-translation.md) guide. In short:

* **Create a complete base file** (`messages.<language>.base.json`) for each supported language.
* **Add patch files only when needed** – keep them minimal.

> * **Follow naming conventions** – base file: `messages.<language>.base.json`; patch file: `messages.<locale>.base.json`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Follow naming conventions** – E.g. agnostic file: `storefront.nl.json`; patch file: `storefront.nl-BE.base.json`.
```
I'd use storefront here, since "base" is something which probably won't be needed in the future anymore, making it easier to keep this up-to-date.

In addition, I guess an example makes it easier to get here.

> * **Validate your snippets** – clear the cache and run `bin/console snippet:validate`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Validate your snippets** – clear the cache and run `bin/console translation:validate`.
```

I'll rename this with my PR

## Conclusion

> The region-independent snippet layer streamlines translation maintenance by consolidating common strings into a neutral base file and isolating regional vocabulary into small patch files.   

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The country-agnostic snippet layer streamlines translation maintenance by consolidating common strings into a neutral fallback file and isolating regional vocabulary into small patch files.   
```
